# Chaos Report

**David Luong**\
**ISTE-422**\
**Section 01**\
**1/15/17**
### British Airways software failure

Occurring multiple times within 2017, the British Airways had experienced crashes on its software system, erasing several flight statuses, which most recently affected 75,000 passengers who planned their trips to the U.K. during a holiday weekend. The incident occurred because of a massive power outage that struck the airline's communication system, creating chaos in Heathrow's (a busy European airport based in London) baggage-claim area. At least half the passengers reported they lost their luggage, and blamed the staffs at Heathrow for a belated response; the passengers' rising concerns led to delayed or cancelled flights - mostly international. British Airways did its best to get all flights back on schedule, but it led passengers to wait longer as its corrupted software system required lots of diagnostics, which was not done on a regular basis. Also, British Airways couldn't do any better to locate passengers' belongings, but to compensate for the incident's disruption of the passengers' flights, and eventually, for everything else under the E.U.'s (European Union) regulations.

At last, the Chief Executive of the British Airways, Alex Cruz, stated the primary cause of the incident was aroused by unexpected issues at a local data center - most that resolved during that entire weekend. Nearly 60% of the 75,000 passengers were able to fly to their intended destination the following week, but the disaster caused by the incident was still unsettled; this time, British Airways have started to make less profit as other global passengers lose trust in the airline. Regardless of the positive results in clearing the incident, travelers have become more cautious about their future plans, and would rather avoid additional risks than to simply forgive British Airways for its numerous mistakes and not having the airline pay for their personal expenses, ranging from prices of flight tickets to hotel costs. It's similar to poor relationship-building where the stronger side (from the incident, the populous number of passengers) "gives more (money for their flights) than takes" to the weaker side (British Airways), who can never repay the passengers fully. In order to get closer to eliminating passengers' concerns, the British Airway should consider satisfying the needs of its passengers first the next time any of its remaining issues intensifies again.
